
Transcriber's Note

This catalogue originally appeared in "An Outline of Russian Literature,"
by Maurice Baring: Williams and Norgate, London; first printed 1914/15.




                       The
                 Home University
           Library of Modern Knowledge

         _A Comprehensive Series of New
          and Specially Written Books_

                    EDITORS:

   Prof. GILBERT MURRAY, D.Litt., LL.D., F.B.A.
          HERBERT FISHER, LL.D., F.B.A.
      Prof. J. ARTHUR THOMSON, M.A., LL.D.
         Prof. WILLIAM T. BREWSTER, M.A.

   1/- net          256 Pages          2/6 net
  in cloth                           in leather


_History and Geography_

3. _THE FRENCH REVOLUTION_

By HILAIRE BELLOC, M.A. (With Maps.) "It is coloured with all the
militancy of the author's temperament."--_Daily News._

4. _A SHORT HISTORY OF WAR AND PEACE_

By G. H. PERRIS. The Rt. Hon. JAMES BRYCE writes: "I have read it with
much interest and pleasure, admiring the skill with which you have
managed to compress so many facts and views into so small a volume."

8. _POLAR EXPLORATION_

By Dr W. S. BRUCE, F.R.S.E., Leader of the "Scotia" Expedition. (With
Maps.) "A very freshly written and interesting narrative."--_The
Times._

12. _THE OPENING-UP OF AFRICA_

By Sir H. H. JOHNSTON, G.C.M.G., F.Z.S. (With Maps.) "The Home
University Library is much enriched by this excellent work."--_Daily
Mail._

13. _MEDIÆVAL EUROPE_

By H. W. C. DAVIS, M.A. (With Maps.) "One more illustration of the
fact that it takes a complete master of the subject to write briefly
upon it."--_Manchester Guardian._

14. _THE PAPACY & MODERN TIMES (1303-1870)_

By WILLIAM BARRY, D.D. "Dr Barry has a wide range of knowledge and an
artist's power of selection."--_Manchester Guardian._

23. _HISTORY OF OUR TIME (1885-1911)_

By G. P. GOOCH, M.A. "Mr Gooch contrives to breathe vitality into his
story, and to give us the flesh as well as the bones of recent
happenings."--_Observer._

25. _THE CIVILISATION OF CHINA_

By H. A. GILES, LL.D., Professor of Chinese at Cambridge. "In all the
mass of facts, Professor Giles never becomes dull. He is always ready
with a ghost story or a street adventure for the reader's
recreation."--_Spectator._

29. _THE DAWN OF HISTORY_

By J. L. MYRES, M.A., F.S.A., Wykeham Professor of Ancient History,
Oxford. "There is not a page in it that is not suggestive."--_Manchester
Guardian._

33. _THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND_

_A Study in Political Evolution_

By Prof. A. F. POLLARD, M.A. With a Chronological Table. "It takes
its place at once among the authoritative works on English
history."--_Observer._

34. _CANADA_

By A. G. BRADLEY. "The volume makes an immediate appeal to the man who
wants to know something vivid and true about Canada."--_Canadian
Gazette._

37. _PEOPLES & PROBLEMS OF INDIA_

By Sir T. W. HOLDERNESS, K.C.S.I., Permanent Under-Secretary of State
of the India Office. "Just the book which newspaper readers require
to-day, and a marvel of comprehensiveness."--_Pall Mall Gazette._

42. _ROME_

By W. WARDE FOWLER, M.A. "A masterly sketch of Roman character and of
what it did for the world."--_The Spectator._

48. _THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR_

By F. L. PAXSON, Professor of American History, Wisconsin University
(With Maps.) "A stirring study."--_The Guardian._

51. _WARFARE IN BRITAIN_

By HILAIRE BELLOC, M.A. "Rich in suggestion for the historical
student."--_Edinburgh Evening News._

55. _MASTER MARINERS_

By J. R. SPEARS. "A continuous story of shipping progress and
adventure.... It reads like a romance."--_Glasgow Herald._

61. _NAPOLEON_

By HERBERT FISHER, LL.D., F.B.A., Vice-Chancellor of Sheffield
University. (With Maps.) The story of the great Bonaparte's youth, his
career, and his downfall, with some sayings of Napoleon, a genealogy,
and a bibliography.

66. _THE NAVY AND SEA POWER_

By DAVID HANNAY. The author traces the growth of naval power from
early times, and discusses its principles and effects upon the history
of the Western world.

71. _GERMANY OF TO-DAY_

By CHARLES TOWER. "It would be difficult to name any better
summary."--_Daily News._

82. _PREHISTORIC BRITAIN_

By ROBERT MUNRO, M.A., M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.E. (Illustrated.)

91. _THE ALPS_

By ARNOLD LUNN, M.A. (Illustrated.)

92. _CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA_

By PROFESSOR W. R. SHEPHERD. (Maps.)

97. _THE ANCIENT EAST_

By D. G. HOGARTH, M.A. (Maps.)

98. _THE WARS between ENGLAND and AMERICA_

By Prof. T. C. SMITH.

100. _HISTORY OF SCOTLAND_

By Prof. R. S. RAIT.


_Literature and Art_

2. _SHAKESPEARE_

By JOHN MASEFIELD. "We have had more learned books on Shakespeare in
the last few years, but not one so wise."--_Manchester Guardian._

27. _ENGLISH LITERATURE: MODERN_

By G. H. MAIR, M.A. "Altogether a fresh and individual
book."--_Observer._

35. _LANDMARKS IN FRENCH LITERATURE_

By G. L. STRACHEY. "It is difficult to imagine how a better account of
French Literature could be given in 250 small pages."--_The Times._

39. _ARCHITECTURE_

By Prof. W. R. LETHABY. (Over forty Illustrations.) "Delightfully
bright reading."--_Christian World._

43. _ENGLISH LITERATURE: MEDIÆVAL_

By Prof. W. P. KER, M.A. "Prof. Ker's knowledge and taste are
unimpeachable, and his style is effective, simple, yet never
dry."--_The Athenæum._

45. _THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE_

By L. PEARSALL SMITH, M.A. "A wholly fascinating study of the
different streams that make the great river of the English
speech."--_Daily News._

52. _GREAT WRITERS OF AMERICA_

By Prof. J. ERSKINE and Prof. W. P. TRENT. "An admirable summary, from
Franklin to Mark Twain, enlivened by a dry humour."--_Athenæum._

63. _PAINTERS AND PAINTING_

By Sir FREDERICK WEDMORE. (With 16 half-tone illustrations.) From the
Primitives to the Impressionists.

64. _DR JOHNSON AND HIS CIRCLE_

By JOHN BAILEY, M.A. "A most delightful essay."--_Christian World._

65. _THE LITERATURE OF GERMANY_

By Professor J. G. ROBERTSON, M.A., Ph.D. "Under the author's skilful
treatment the subject shows life and continuity."--_Athenæum._

70. _THE VICTORIAN AGE IN LITERATURE_

By G. K. CHESTERTON. "No one will put it down without a sense of
having taken a tonic or received a series of electric shocks."--_The
Times._

73. _THE WRITING OF ENGLISH_

By W. T. BREWSTER, A.M., Professor of English in Columbia University.
"Sensible, and not over-rigidly conventional."--_Manchester Guardian._

75. _ANCIENT ART AND RITUAL_

By JANE E. HARRISON, LL.D., D.Litt. "Charming in style and learned in
manner."--_Daily News._

76. _EURIPIDES AND HIS AGE_

By GILBERT MURRAY, D.Litt., LL.D., F.B.A., Regius Professor of Greek
at Oxford. "A beautiful piece of work.... Just in the fulness of time,
and exactly in the right place.... Euripides has come into his
own."--_The Nation._

87. _CHAUCER AND HIS TIMES_

By GRACE E. HADOW.

89. _WILLIAM MORRIS: HIS WORK AND INFLUENCE_

By A. CLUTTON BROCK.

93. _THE RENAISSANCE_

By EDITH SICHEL.

95. _ELIZABETHAN LITERATURE_

By J. M. ROBERTSON, M.P.

99. _AN OUTLINE OF RUSSIAN LITERATURE_

By Hon. MAURICE BARING.


_Science_

7. _MODERN GEOGRAPHY_

By Dr MARION NEWBIGIN. (Illustrated.) "Geography, again: what a dull,
tedious study that was wont to be!... But Miss Marion Newbigin invests
its dry bones with the flesh and blood of romantic interest."--_Daily
Telegraph._

9. _THE EVOLUTION OF PLANTS_

By Dr D. H. SCOTT, M.A., F.R.S., late Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell
Laboratory, Kew. (Fully illustrated.) "Dr Scott's candid and
familiar style makes the difficult subject both fascinating and
easy."--_Gardeners' Chronicle._

17. _HEALTH AND DISEASE_

By W. LESLIE MACKENZIE, M.D., Local Government Board, Edinburgh.

18. _INTRODUCTION TO MATHEMATICS_

By A. N. WHITEHEAD, Sc.D., F.R.S. (With Diagrams.) "Mr Whitehead has
discharged with conspicuous success the task he is so exceptionally
qualified to undertake. For he is one of our great authorities upon
the foundations of the science."--_Westminster Gazette._

19. _THE ANIMAL WORLD_

By Professor F. W. GAMBLE, F.R.S. With Introduction by Sir Oliver
Lodge. (Many Illustrations.) "A fascinating and suggestive
survey."--_Morning Post._

20. _EVOLUTION_

By Professor J. ARTHUR THOMSON and Professor PATRICK GEDDES. "A
many-coloured and romantic panorama, opening up, like no other book we
know, a rational vision of world-development."--_Belfast News-Letter._

22. _CRIME AND INSANITY_

By Dr C. A. MERCIER. "Furnishes much valuable information from one
occupying the highest position among medico-legal psychologists."--_Asylum
News._

28. _PSYCHICAL RESEARCH_

By Sir W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S., Professor of Physics, Royal College of
Science, Dublin, 1873-1910. "What he has to say on thought-reading,
hypnotism, telepathy, crystal-vision, spiritualism, divinings, and so
on, will be read with avidity."--_Dundee Courier._

31. _ASTRONOMY_

By A. R. HINKS, M.A., Chief Assistant, Cambridge Observatory.
"Original in thought, eclectic in substance, and critical in
treatment.... No better little book is available."--_School World._

32. _INTRODUCTION TO SCIENCE_

By J. ARTHUR THOMSON, M.A., Regius Professor of Natural History,
Aberdeen University. "Professor Thomson's delightful literary style is
well known; and here he discourses freshly and easily on the methods
of science and its relations with philosophy, art, religion, and
practical life."--_Aberdeen Journal._

36. _CLIMATE AND WEATHER_

By Prof. H. N. DICKSON, D.Sc.Oxon., M.A., F.R.S.E., President of the
Royal Meteorological Society. (With Diagrams.) "The author has
succeeded in presenting in a very lucid and agreeable manner the
causes of the movements of the atmosphere and of the more stable
winds."--_Manchester Guardian._

41. _ANTHROPOLOGY_

By R. R. MARETT, M.A., Reader in Social Anthropology in Oxford
University. "An absolutely perfect handbook, so clear that a child
could understand it, so fascinating and human that it beats fiction
'to a frazzle.'"--_Morning Leader._

44. _THE PRINCIPLES OF PHYSIOLOGY_

By Prof. J. G. MCKENDRICK, M.D. "Upon every page of it is stamped the
impress of a creative imagination."--_Glasgow Herald._

46. _MATTER AND ENERGY_

By F. SODDY, M.A., F.R.S. "Prof. Soddy has successfully accomplished
the very difficult task of making physics of absorbing interest on
popular lines."--_Nature._

49. _PSYCHOLOGY, THE STUDY OF BEHAVIOUR_

By Prof. W. MCDOUGALL, F.R.S., M.B. "A happy example of the
non-technical handling of an unwieldy science, suggesting rather than
dogmatising. It should whet appetites for deeper study."--_Christian
World._

53. _THE MAKING OF THE EARTH_

By Prof. J. W. GREGORY, F.R.S. (With 38 Maps and Figures.) "A
fascinating little volume.... Among the many good things contained in
the series this takes a high place."--_The Athenæum._

57. _THE HUMAN BODY_

By A. KEITH, M.D., LL.D., Conservator of Museum and Hunterian
Professor, Royal College of Surgeons. (Illustrated.) "It literally
makes the 'dry bones' to live. It will certainly take a high place
among the classics of popular science."--_Manchester Guardian._

58. _ELECTRICITY_

By GISBERT KAPP, D.Eng., Professor of Electrical Engineering in the
University of Birmingham. (Illustrated.) "It will be appreciated
greatly by learners and by the great number of amateurs who are
interested in what is one of the most fascinating of scientific
studies."--_Glasgow Herald._

62. _THE ORIGIN AND NATURE OF LIFE_

By Dr BENJAMIN MOORE, Professor of Bio-Chemistry, University College,
Liverpool. "Stimulating, learned, lucid."--_Liverpool Courier._

67. _CHEMISTRY_

By RAPHAEL MELDOLA, F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in Finsbury
Technical College, London. Presents clearly, without the detail
demanded by the expert, the way in which chemical science has
developed, and the stage it has reached.

72. _PLANT LIFE_

By Prof. J. B. FARMER, D.Sc., F.R.S. (Illustrated.) "Professor Farmer
has contrived to convey all the most vital facts of plant physiology,
and also to present a good many of the chief problems which confront
investigators to-day in the realms of morphology and of
heredity."--_Morning Post._

78. _THE OCEAN_

A General Account of the Science of the Sea. By Sir JOHN MURRAY,
K.C.B. F.R.S. (Colour plates and other illustrations.)

79. _NERVES_

By Prof. D. FRASER HARRIS, M.D., D.Sc. (Illustrated.) A description,
in non-technical language, of the nervous system, its intricate
mechanism and the strange phenomena of energy and fatigue, with some
practical reflections.

86. _SEX_

By Prof. PATRICK GEDDES and Prof. J. ARTHUR THOMSON, LL.D. (Illus.)

88. _THE GROWTH OF EUROPE_

By Prof. GRENVILLE COLE, (Illus.)


_Philosophy and Religion_

15. _MOHAMMEDANISM_

By Prof. D. S. MARGOLIOUTH, M.A., D.Litt. "This generous shilling's
worth of wisdom.... A delicate, humorous, and most responsible
tractate by an illuminative professor."--_Daily Mail._

40. _THE PROBLEMS OF PHILOSOPHY_

By the Hon. BERTRAND RUSSELL, F.R.S. "A book that the 'man in the
street' will recognise at once to be a boon.... Consistently lucid and
non-technical throughout."--_Christian World._

47. _BUDDHISM_

By Mrs RHYS DAVIDS, M.A. "The author presents very attractively as
well as very learnedly the philosophy of Buddhism."--_Daily News._

50. _NONCONFORMITY: Its ORIGIN and PROGRESS_

By Principal W. B. SELBIE, M.A. "The historical part is brilliant in
its insight, clarity, and proportion."--_Christian World._

54. _ETHICS_

By G. E. MOORE, M.A., Lecturer in Moral Science in Cambridge
University. "A very lucid though closely reasoned outline of the logic
of good conduct."--_Christian World._

56. _THE MAKING OF THE NEW TESTAMENT_

By Prof. B. W. BACON, LL.D., D.D. "Professor Bacon has boldly, and
wisely, taken his own line, and has produced, as a result, an
extraordinarily vivid, stimulating, and lucid book."--_Manchester
Guardian._

60. _MISSIONS: THEIR RISE and DEVELOPMENT_

By Mrs CREIGHTON. "Very interestingly done.... Its style is simple,
direct, unhackneyed, and should find appreciation where a more
fervently pious style of writing repels."--_Methodist Recorder._

68. _COMPARATIVE RELIGION_

By Prof. J. ESTLIN CARPENTER, D.Litt., Principal of Manchester
College, Oxford. "Puts into the reader's hand a wealth of learning and
independent thought."--_Christian World._

74. _A HISTORY OF FREEDOM OF THOUGHT_

By J. B. BURY, Litt.D., LL.D., Regius Professor of Modern History at
Cambridge. "A little masterpiece, which every thinking man will
enjoy."--_The Observer._

84. _LITERATURE OF THE OLD TESTAMENT_

By Prof. GEORGE MOORE, D.D., LL.D., of Harvard. A detailed examination
of the books of the Old Testament in the light of the most recent
research.

90. _THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND_

By Canon E. W. WATSON, Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History at
Oxford.

94. _RELIGIOUS DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN THE OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS_

By Canon R. H. CHARLES, D.D., D.Litt.


_Social Science_

1. _PARLIAMENT_

Its History, Constitution, and Practice. By Sir COURTENAY P. ILBERT,
G.C.B., K.C.S.I., Clerk of the House of Commons. "The best book on the
history and practice of the House of Commons since Bagehot's
'Constitution.'"--_Yorkshire Post._

5. _THE STOCK EXCHANGE_

By F. W. HIRST, Editor of "The Economist." "To an unfinancial mind
must be a revelation.... The book is as clear, vigorous, and sane as
Bagehot's 'Lombard Street,' than which there is no higher
compliment."--_Morning Leader._

6. _IRISH NATIONALITY_

By Mrs J. R. GREEN. "As glowing as it is learned. No book could be
more timely."--_Daily News._

10. _THE SOCIALIST MOVEMENT_

By J. RAMSAY MACDONALD, M.P. "Admirably adapted for the purpose of
exposition."--_The Times._

11. _CONSERVATISM_

By LORD HUGH CECIL, M.A., M.P. "One of those great little books which
seldom appear more than once in a generation."--_Morning Post._

16. _THE SCIENCE OF WEALTH_

By J. A. HOBSON, M.A. "Mr J. A. Hobson holds an unique position among
living economists.... Original, reasonable, and illuminating."--_The
Nation._

21. _LIBERALISM_

By L. T. HOBHOUSE, M.A., Professor of Sociology in the University of
London. "A book of rare quality.... We have nothing but praise for the
rapid and masterly summaries of the arguments from first principles
which form a large part of this book."--_Westminster Gazette._

24. _THE EVOLUTION OF INDUSTRY_

By D. H. MACGREGOR, M.A., Professor of Political Economy in the
University of Leeds. "A volume so dispassionate in terms may be read with
profit by all interested in the present state of unrest."--_Aberdeen
Journal._

26. _AGRICULTURE_

By Prof. W. SOMERVILLE, F.L.S. "It makes the results of laboratory work
at the University accessible to the practical farmer."--_Athenæum._

30. _ELEMENTS OF ENGLISH LAW_

By W. M. GELDART, M.A., B.C.L., Vinerian Professor of English Law at
Oxford. "Contains a very clear account of the elementary principles
underlying the rules of English Law."--_Scots Law Times._

38. _THE SCHOOL: An Introduction to the Study of Education._

By J. J. FINDLAY, M.A., Ph.D., Professor of Education in Manchester
University. "An amazingly comprehensive volume.... It is a remarkable
performance, distinguished in its crisp, striking phraseology as well
as its inclusiveness of subject-matter."--_Morning Post._

59. _ELEMENTS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY_

By S. J. CHAPMAN, M.A., Professor of Political Economy in Manchester
University. "Its importance is not to be measured by its price.
Probably the best recent critical exposition of the analytical method
in economic science."--_Glasgow Herald._

69. _THE NEWSPAPER_

By G. BINNEY DIBBLEE, M.A. (Illustrated.) The best account extant of
the organisation of the newspaper press, at home and abroad.

77. _SHELLEY, GODWIN, AND THEIR CIRCLE_

By H. N. BRAILSFORD, M.A. "Mr Brailsford sketches vividly the
influence of the French Revolution on Shelley's and Godwin's England;
and the charm and strength of his style make his book an authentic
contribution to literature."--_The Bookman._

80. _CO-PARTNERSHIP AND PROFIT-SHARING_

By ANEURIN WILLIAMS, M.A. "A judicious but enthusiastic history, with much
interesting speculation on the future of Co-partnership."--_Christian
World._

81. _PROBLEMS OF VILLAGE LIFE_

By E. N. BENNETT, M.A. Discusses the leading aspects of the British
land problem, including housing, small holdings, rural credit, and the
minimum wage.

83. _COMMON-SENSE IN LAW_

By Prof. P. VINOGRADOFF, D.C.L.

85. _UNEMPLOYMENT_

By Prof. A. C. PIGOU, M.A.

96. _POLITICAL THOUGHT IN ENGLAND: FROM BACON TO HALIFAX_

By G. P. GOOCH, M.A.


IN PREPARATION

_ANCIENT EGYPT._ By F. LL. GRIFFITH, M.A.

_A SHORT HISTORY OF EUROPE._ By HERBERT FISHER, LL.D.

_THE BYZANTINE EMPIRE._ By NORMAN H. BAYNES.

_THE REFORMATION._ By President LINDSAY, LL.D.

_A SHORT HISTORY OF RUSSIA._ By Prof. MILYOUKOV.

_MODERN TURKEY._ By D. G. HOGARTH, M.A.

_FRANCE OF TO-DAY._ By ALBERT THOMAS.

_HISTORY AND LITERATURE OF SPAIN._ By J. FITZMAURICE-KELLY, F.B.A.,
    Litt.D.

_LATIN LITERATURE._ By Prof. J. S. PHILLIMORE.

_ITALIAN ART OF THE RENAISSANCE._ By ROGER E. FRY.

_LITERARY TASTE._ By THOMAS SECCOMBE.

_SCANDINAVIAN HISTORY & LITERATURE._ By T. C. SNOW.

_THE MINERAL WORLD._ By Sir T. H. HOLLAND, K.C.I.E., D.Sc.

_A HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY._ By CLEMENT WEBB, M.A.

_POLITICAL THOUGHT IN ENGLAND: From Bentham to J. S. Mill._ By Prof.
    W. L. DAVIDSON.

_POLITICAL THOUGHT IN ENGLAND: From Herbert Spencer to To-day._ By
    ERNEST BARKER, M.A.

_THE CRIMINAL AND THE COMMUNITY._ By Viscount ST. CYRES.

_THE CIVIL SERVICE._ By GRAHAM WALLAS, M.A.

_THE SOCIAL SETTLEMENT._ By JANE ADDAMS and R. A. WOODS.

_GREAT INVENTIONS._ By Prof. J. L. MYRES, M.A., F.S.A.

_TOWN PLANNING._ By RAYMOND UNWIN.


          London: WILLIAMS AND NORGATE
     _And of all Bookshops and Bookstalls._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Home University Library catalogue
1914/15, by Williams and Norgate, Publishers

